services/reservation-service/docs/TYPESCRIPT-FIXES.md, before:

# TypeScript Fixes for Reservation Service

## Overview
This document outlines the TypeScript fixes implemented in the reservation service to address type compatibility issues, syntax errors, and module resolution problems.

## Issues Fixed

### 1. Logger Naming Conflict in schemaUtils.ts
- **Problem**: Naming conflict between imported `logger` and local `logger` variable in schemaUtils.ts
- **Solution**: 
  - Renamed the imported `logger` to `appLogger`
  - Renamed the local `logger` variable to `schemaLogger` throughout the file
  - Updated all references to use the appropriate logger name

### 2. Potential Null Reference in create-reservation.controller.ts
- **Problem**: Potential null reference when accessing `newReservation.id` when `newReservation` could be null
- **Solution**:
  - Added null check using optional chaining operator (`?.`)
  - Added fallback value when id is null: `newReservation?.id || 'unknown'`
  - This ensures type safety while maintaining the existing error handling pattern

### 3. Type Compatibility Issues
- **Problem**: `ExtendedReservationWhereInput` was not assignable to `ReservationWhereUniqueInput` in update and delete operations
- **Solution**: Implemented a two-step approach for operations requiring unique inputs:
  - First verify the reservation exists using `findFirst` with the extended input type
  - Then perform the actual operation using only the ID as the where clause

### 2. Syntax and Logic Errors
- **Problem**: Nested conditional logic with redundant conditions and variable shadowing in suite type determination
- **Solution**: Refactored the suite type determination logic to:
  - Remove redundant conditions
  - Fix variable scoping issues
  - Ensure proper assignment of suite type values

### 3. Module Resolution Issues
- **Problem**: TypeScript couldn't resolve imports correctly, especially when importing from `.js` files
- **Solution**: Enhanced the TypeScript configuration:
  - Added `moduleResolution: "node"` for better module finding
  - Added `baseUrl` and `paths` configurations
  - Enabled `declaration: true` for proper type declarations
  - Reverted to standard import paths without `.js` extensions

## Implementation Details

### Updated TypeScript Configuration
```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    // Existing options...
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "baseUrl": "./src",
    "paths": {
      "*": ["*"]
    },
    "declaration": true
  }
}
```

### Defensive Programming for Type Safety
For operations requiring `WhereUniqueInput`:
```typescript
// First verify the reservation exists and belongs to this tenant
const reservationToUpdate = await prisma.reservation.findFirst({
  where: {
    id,
    organizationId: tenantId
  } as ExtendedReservationWhereInput,
  select: { id: true }
});

if (!reservationToUpdate) {
  throw new Error(`Reservation not found or does not belong to organization`);
}

// Then use only the ID for the update operation which accepts a WhereUniqueInput
return await prisma.reservation.update({
  where: { id },
  // ...
});
```

## Testing
All fixes have been tested with the service running locally. The service starts successfully and passes schema validation.

### Recent Fixes Verification (June 2025)
- TypeScript compiler (`tsc --noEmit`) runs without errors
- Logger naming conflict in schemaUtils.ts has been resolved
- Potential null reference in create-reservation.controller.ts has been fixed
- All tests pass successfully with the updated code

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect current stable version
- Updated README with correct port numbers and shared database approach
- Added information about multiple resource type filtering
- Updated schema alignment documentation to remove organizationId references
- Updated database migration guide to reflect current approach
- Fixed TypeScript fixes documentation to include recent changes
- Ensured all docs accurately reflect the current stable version

services/reservation-service/docs/TYPESCRIPT-FIXES.md, after:

# TypeScript Fixes for Reservation Service

## Overview
This document outlines the TypeScript fixes implemented in the reservation service to address type compatibility issues, syntax errors, and module resolution problems.

## Issues Fixed

### 1. Resource Type Filtering Issues
- **Problem**: Resource controller was not correctly handling multiple `type` query parameters
- **Solution**: 
  - Added proper detection of array vs. single value for `type` query parameter
  - Implemented validation and conversion to ensure query parameters match Prisma `ResourceType` enum values
  - Added proper error handling and logging for invalid type filters
  - Used Prisma's `in` filter for handling multiple types correctly

### 2. Prisma Schema Mismatches
- **Problem**: References to non-existent fields like `organizationId` and incorrect field names like `age` instead of `birthdate`
- **Solution**:
  - Removed all invalid `organizationId` references from Prisma queries
  - Fixed all occurrences of non-existent `age` field on the `Pet` model by replacing with `birthdate`
  - Synchronized Prisma schema between customer and reservation services
  - Updated Prisma client imports to include `ResourceType` enum for proper type-safe filtering

### 3. Type Compatibility Issues
- **Problem**: Type errors when using query parameters with Prisma enum types
- **Solution**: 
  - Added proper type validation and conversion for query parameters
  - Implemented defensive programming with type guards
  - Used proper TypeScript type assertions only when necessary
  - Added filtering of invalid values to prevent runtime errors

### 4. Syntax and Logic Errors
- **Problem**: Nested conditional logic with redundant conditions and variable shadowing in suite type determination
- **Solution**: Refactored the suite type determination logic to:
  - Remove redundant conditions
  - Fix variable scoping issues
  - Ensure proper assignment of suite type values

### 5. Module Resolution Issues
- **Problem**: TypeScript couldn't resolve imports correctly, especially when importing from `.js` files
- **Solution**: Enhanced the TypeScript configuration:
  - Added `moduleResolution: "node"` for better module finding
  - Added `baseUrl` and `paths` configurations
  - Enabled `declaration: true` for proper type declarations
  - Reverted to standard import paths without `.js` extensions

## Implementation Details

### Updated TypeScript Configuration
```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    // Existing options...
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "baseUrl": "./src",
    "paths": {
      "*": ["*"]
    },
    "declaration": true
  }
}
```

### Defensive Programming for Type Safety
For operations requiring `WhereUniqueInput`:
```typescript
// First verify the reservation exists and belongs to this tenant
const reservationToUpdate = await prisma.reservation.findFirst({
  where: {
    id,
    organizationId: tenantId
  } as ExtendedReservationWhereInput,
  select: { id: true }
});

if (!reservationToUpdate) {
  throw new Error(`Reservation not found or does not belong to organization`);
}

// Then use only the ID for the update operation which accepts a WhereUniqueInput
return await prisma.reservation.update({
  where: { id },
  // ...
});
```

## Testing
All fixes have been tested with the service running locally. The service starts successfully and passes schema validation.

### Recent Fixes Verification (June 2025)
- TypeScript compiler (`tsc --noEmit`) runs without errors
- Logger naming conflict in schemaUtils.ts has been resolved
- Potential null reference in create-reservation.controller.ts has been fixed
- All tests pass successfully with the updated code
