README.md, before:

# Tailtown Pet Resort Management System

A modern, full-featured management system for pet resorts, providing comprehensive tools for reservations, customer management, and pet care services.

## Features

### Customer Management
- Customer profiles with contact information
- Pet profiles with medical history, vaccination records
- Multiple pets per customer
- Document storage for forms and agreements

### Reservation System
- Interactive calendar interface
- Real-time availability checking
- Multiple service types (daycare, boarding, grooming)
- Color-coded reservation status
- Drag-and-drop scheduling
- Specialized kennel grid calendar for boarding and daycare
- Compact view for efficient kennel management
- Seamless add-on service selection workflow
- Consistent reservation experience across all service types
- Unique order number system for easy reference (format: RES-YYYYMMDD-001)
- Comprehensive add-on services management

### Invoicing and Payments
- Automatic invoice generation for reservations
- Detailed invoice view with line items
- Service and add-on itemization
- Configurable tax rate (7.44%)
- Payment tracking and history
- Multiple payment methods (cash, credit card, check, account)
- Persistent shopping cart with localStorage backup
- Streamlined checkout process with direct navigation
- Clean cart management between orders
- Customer account balance management
- Invoice status tracking (draft, sent, paid, etc.)

### Service Management
- Customizable service catalog
- Service duration and capacity settings
- Pricing management with dynamic price rules
- Flexible discount system (percentage or fixed amount)
- Resource allocation

### Resource Management
- Track kennels, rooms, and equipment
- Maintenance scheduling
- Occupancy tracking
- Resource conflict prevention

### Staff Management
- Staff profiles with contact information
- Enhanced scheduling with compact time display
- Starting location assignment for shifts
- Time-off requests and approval workflow
- Performance tracking

### Settings & Configuration
- Centralized system settings
- User management
- Price rules configuration
- System-wide preferences

## Technology Stack

### Frontend
- React with TypeScript
- Material-UI for components
- FullCalendar for scheduling
- JWT authentication
- Responsive design

### Backend
- Express.js with TypeScript
- Prisma ORM
- PostgreSQL database
- RESTful API architecture
- JWT-based authentication

## Development Guidelines

### Form Standards
To ensure consistency across the application, we've established guidelines for creating forms. These guidelines cover:
- Material UI component usage
- Label positioning and behavior
- Accessibility requirements
- Error handling
- Form validation

See [Form Guidelines](./docs/development/FormGuidelines.md) for detailed information.

## Project Structure

```
├── frontend/                # React frontend application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/     # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── pages/          # Page components
│   │   ├── services/       # API service layer
│   │   ├── types/          # TypeScript interfaces
│   │   └── contexts/       # React contexts
│   
└── services/
    └── customer/           # Customer service
        ├── src/
        │   ├── controllers/  # Route handlers
        │   ├── routes/       # API routes
        │   ├── middleware/   # Express middleware
        │   └── prisma/       # Database schema
```

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js >= 16.x
- npm >= 8.x
- PostgreSQL >= 13

### Environment Setup
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/moosecreates/tailtown.git
   cd tailtown
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   # Frontend
   cd frontend
   npm install

   # Backend
   cd ../services/customer
   npm install
   ```

3. Set up environment variables:
   ```bash
   # Frontend
   cp frontend/.env.example frontend/.env

   # Backend
   cp services/customer/.env.example services/customer/.env
   ```

4. Start the development servers:
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Backend
   cd services/customer
   npm run dev

   # Terminal 2: Frontend
   cd frontend
   npm start
   ```

### Available URLs
- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:3003

## API Documentation

### Base URL
All API endpoints are prefixed with `/api`

### Authentication
- All routes except login require JWT authentication
- Token should be included in Authorization header:
  ```
  Authorization: Bearer <token>
  ```

### Response Format
All responses follow the format:
```json
{
  "status": "success" | "error",
  "data": <response_data>,
  "results": <number_of_items>,
  "totalPages": <total_pages>,
  "currentPage": <current_page>
}
```

## Contributing

1. Create a feature branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

2. Follow the coding standards:
   - Use TypeScript
   - Follow ESLint rules
   - Keep files under 300 lines
   - Add JSDoc comments for complex functions
   - Write unit tests for new features

3. Submit a pull request

## File Storage

### Local File Storage
The application currently uses local file storage for uploaded files:
- Upload directory: `services/customer/uploads/`
- Supported file types: JPEG, PNG, GIF, PDF
- File size limit: 5MB
- Directory structure:
  ```
  uploads/
  ├── pets/         # Pet photos and documents
  ├── customers/    # Customer-related documents
  └── temp/         # Temporary file storage
  ```

### Production Considerations
- For production deployments, consider using a cloud storage solution (e.g., AWS S3)
- Ensure proper backup of the uploads directory
- Implement regular cleanup of the temp directory
- Monitor disk space usage

## License

Proprietary - All Rights Reserved

Commit message:

Update documentation for navigation restructuring

README.md, after:

# Tailtown Pet Resort Management System

A modern, full-featured management system for pet resorts, providing comprehensive tools for reservations, customer management, and pet care services.

## Features

### Customer Management
- Customer profiles with contact information
- Pet profiles with medical history, vaccination records
- Multiple pets per customer
- Document storage for forms and agreements

### Reservation System
- Interactive calendar interface
- Real-time availability checking
- Multiple service types (daycare, boarding, grooming)
- Color-coded reservation status
- Drag-and-drop scheduling
- Specialized kennel grid calendar for boarding and daycare
- Compact view for efficient kennel management
- Seamless add-on service selection workflow
- Consistent reservation experience across all service types
- Unique order number system for easy reference (format: RES-YYYYMMDD-001)
- Comprehensive add-on services management

### Invoicing and Payments
- Automatic invoice generation for reservations
- Detailed invoice view with line items
- Service and add-on itemization
- Configurable tax rate (7.44%)
- Payment tracking and history
- Multiple payment methods (cash, credit card, check, account)
- Persistent shopping cart with localStorage backup
- Streamlined checkout process with direct navigation
- Clean cart management between orders
- Customer account balance management
- Invoice status tracking (draft, sent, paid, etc.)

### Service Management
- Customizable service catalog
- Service duration and capacity settings
- Pricing management with dynamic price rules
- Flexible discount system (percentage or fixed amount)
- Resource allocation

### Resource Management
- Track kennels, rooms, and equipment
- Maintenance scheduling
- Occupancy tracking
- Resource conflict prevention

### Staff Management
- Staff profiles with contact information
- Enhanced scheduling with compact time display
- Starting location assignment for shifts
- Time-off requests and approval workflow
- Performance tracking

### Settings & Configuration
- Consolidated Admin/Settings hub for administrative functions
- Analytics dashboards with financial metrics and customer value reporting
- Staff scheduling management
- User management and permissions
- Price rules configuration
- Service and resource management
- System-wide preferences

See [Navigation Documentation](./docs/development/Navigation.md) for details on the application's navigation structure.

## Technology Stack

### Frontend
- React with TypeScript
- Material-UI for components
- FullCalendar for scheduling
- JWT authentication
- Responsive design

### Backend
- Express.js with TypeScript
- Prisma ORM
- PostgreSQL database
- RESTful API architecture
- JWT-based authentication

## Development Guidelines

### Form Standards
To ensure consistency across the application, we've established guidelines for creating forms. These guidelines cover:
- Material UI component usage
- Label positioning and behavior
- Accessibility requirements
- Error handling
- Form validation

See [Form Guidelines](./docs/development/FormGuidelines.md) for detailed information.

## Project Structure

```
├── frontend/                # React frontend application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/     # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── pages/          # Page components
│   │   ├── services/       # API service layer
│   │   ├── types/          # TypeScript interfaces
│   │   └── contexts/       # React contexts
│   
└── services/
    └── customer/           # Customer service
        ├── src/
        │   ├── controllers/  # Route handlers
        │   ├── routes/       # API routes
        │   ├── middleware/   # Express middleware
        │   └── prisma/       # Database schema
```

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js >= 16.x
- npm >= 8.x
- PostgreSQL >= 13

### Environment Setup
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/moosecreates/tailtown.git
   cd tailtown
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   # Frontend
   cd frontend
   npm install

   # Backend
   cd ../services/customer
   npm install
   ```

3. Set up environment variables:
   ```bash
   # Frontend
   cp frontend/.env.example frontend/.env

   # Backend
   cp services/customer/.env.example services/customer/.env
   ```

4. Start the development servers:
   ```bash
   # Terminal 1: Backend
   cd services/customer
   npm run dev

   # Terminal 2: Frontend
   cd frontend
   npm start
   ```

### Available URLs
- Frontend: http://localhost:3000
- Backend API: http://localhost:3003

## API Documentation

### Base URL
All API endpoints are prefixed with `/api`

### Authentication
- All routes except login require JWT authentication
- Token should be included in Authorization header:
  ```
  Authorization: Bearer <token>
  ```

### Response Format
All responses follow the format:
```json
{
  "status": "success" | "error",
  "data": <response_data>,
  "results": <number_of_items>,
  "totalPages": <total_pages>,
  "currentPage": <current_page>
}
```

## Contributing

1. Create a feature branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

2. Follow the coding standards:
   - Use TypeScript
   - Follow ESLint rules
   - Keep files under 300 lines
   - Add JSDoc comments for complex functions
   - Write unit tests for new features

3. Submit a pull request

## File Storage

### Local File Storage
The application currently uses local file storage for uploaded files:
- Upload directory: `services/customer/uploads/`
- Supported file types: JPEG, PNG, GIF, PDF
- File size limit: 5MB
- Directory structure:
  ```
  uploads/
  ├── pets/         # Pet photos and documents
  ├── customers/    # Customer-related documents
  └── temp/         # Temporary file storage
  ```

### Production Considerations
- For production deployments, consider using a cloud storage solution (e.g., AWS S3)
- Ensure proper backup of the uploads directory
- Implement regular cleanup of the temp directory
- Monitor disk space usage

## License

Proprietary - All Rights Reserved
